Steve's todo
------------------------------

1. on zope instance create, create canonical address and file it in the apache dbm

2. handle edits in apache for zopes


3. implement domain edits

4. handle edits in apache for domains

5. smarter error messages (which domain did you click?)

6. parked pages for domains without instances, using master instance

7. update all of chad's copious documentation :-)

8. shuffle around my funcs according to chad's scheme

9. confirm security settings

10. instance delete/decommission setting

11. need to check for running instances

12. stop and restart instances when we edit them

















TODO

finish Domains tab for tonight

move all websites into their own zope on gilbert

refactor tesm and gdenet

proceed




dns would stick a domain name in our dns server and map the domain's ip to our
jail's

apache takes the domain request and maps it to a certain zope instance via
ports

zopes

    implement ackawi8080 as instance name

    implement zope_edit

    grey out port when |stock| is skelected

    put inituser in skel?

    implement edit (to rename we have to change instance_home in 4 bin/ scripts
    + zope.conf)

    implement filter/batch

    link instance name to instance page if Little Cheeze is present

    How cool would it be to query the zope socket or lock or pid or whatever to
    see if each zope is actually running? Then start, stop, restart ...

domains

    figure out what is going on here

    hide tab if there is no

LittleCheeze.py -- obj to park in client Zopes to feed info to Big Cheeze



Notes:

  - "decommission" (take out of vhosting) will act as a protection against
  accidental deletion once it is in place.

  - We may want to make delete impossible on production servers. (i.e., have
  two 'modes' for Big Cheeze -- production, dev)

  - You can have multiple Big Cheezes pointing to different instance
  roots. Heck, you can even point them at same root :)

  - No tests, and interface is out of sync

  - list_zopes and list_skel are dumb! They just list the directories in
  instance_root and skel_root, regardless of whether those directories will
  actually function as zopes or skel.

  - I've been using "skel" as the plural of "skel" prolly dumb but it's late ;)
